h1. Daemon Kit

* http://daemon-kit.rubyforge.org/ (coming soon)

h2. Description

Daemon Kit aims to simplify creating Ruby daemons by providing a sound application skeleton (through a generator), task specific generators (jabber bot, etc) and robust environment management code.

Using simple built-in generators it is easy to created evented and non-evented daemons that perform a multitude of different tasks.

Supported generators:

* Evented and non-evented Jabber Bot (coming next)
* Evented and non-evented loops (coming soon)
* Queue poller (SQS, AMQP, etc) (coming soon)

h2. Features/Problems

* Build it
* Review TODO.txt

h2. Synopsis

  $ daemon-kit [/path/to/your/daemon] [options]

The above command generates a skeleton daemon environment for you to adapt.

  $ daemon-kit [/path/to/your/daemon] -i jabber

Use the 'jabber' generator instead of the default one.

h2. Generators

Currently only two generators exist, a 'default' generator and a 'jabber' generator.

The default generator creates a simple daemon with an infinite loop inside that you can adapt.

h3. Jabber Generator

The jabber generator creates a simple daemon that leverages the "xmpp4r-simple":http://xmpp4r-simple.rubyforge.org/ gem to process inbound messages. The daemon will manage the roster and other little tasks, leaving you to provide the hooks for processing messages, presence notifications and subscription request.

h3. Cron Generator

The cron generator creates a simple daemon that leverages the "rufus-scheduler":http://github.com/jmettraux/rufus-scheduler gem to create a simple cron-lie daemon. Please be aware that this daemon could never be a replacement for the battle-tested "cron utility":http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/cron-guide.xml shipped standard with most *nix distributions.

h2. Requirements

* Ruby 1.8.6
* daemons 1.0.10
* rspec 1.1.11 (for writing/running your specs)

h3. Generator Requirements

Depending on the generator you choose for your daemon, it might require additional gems to run.

|.Generator|.Dependencies|
|jabber|* "xmpp4r-simple":http://xmpp4r-simple.rubyforge.org/|
|cron|* "rufus-scheduler":http://github.com/jmettraux/rufus-scheduler|

h2. Install

  $ git clone git://github.com/kennethkalmer/daemon-kit.git
  $ rake gem
  $ gem install pkg/daemon-kit-X.X.X.gem

h2. License

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 Kenneth Kalmer (Internet Exchange CC, Clear Planet Information Solutions Pty Ltd)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
